In Melbourne, we're now in Buath Gurru Grass Flowering Season according to the Aboriginal Kulin seasons. Grass flowering to some of us means hay fever - you can keep an eye on the forecasts here - but there's more to this season than that! Museums Victoria describes this season:

"The weather is warm, and it is often raining. Kangaroo Grass is flowering. Buliyong (bats) are catching insects in flight. Balayang, the Creation Being, is also referred to as the bat. Male Common Brown butterflies are flying. Coranderrk (Victorian Christmas Bush) is coming into flower. The Orion constellation is setting in the western sky around sunrise."

Relationship with country has changed dramatically since colonisation, as has the way we categorise the seasons (the Western four, as opposed to the Kulin 6-7), however it's interesting to consider how the weather patterns we experience today have been shared throughout a 60-80,000 year history in Australia. Of course, we are now seeing some dramatic changes to our weather patterns, evidenced by extremity weather events like the current bushfires. There is indeed a lot we can learn from Aboriginal sovereignty and relationship with country.

This week, our leaders are working through interpreting our Staff Survey results, on the new platform Culture Amp. It is great to see 83% of the Portfolio satisfied with the Indigenous engagement and education at RMIT. A reminder for all to complete the Cultural Awareness Training, followed by the Bundyi Girri Micro Cred, noting that the system won't recognise you as having completed unless you claim your badge and mark yourself as completed in DevelopMe!

We have had a lot of change in the Portfolio this year, but I was pleased to see the passion we all have for RMIT remains strong:
•	84% of us would recommend RMIT as a great place to work
•	85% of us like the kind of work we do, and 84% believe it contributes to RMIT's goals
•	84% believe in the values of RMIT
There were also strong themes of inclusion: 
•	79% of us feel they can belong at RMIT, and can be authentic at work
•	93% believe gender-based harassment and sexual harassment is not tolerated
•	85% believe their manager genuinely supports equality between genders
Additionally, our focus on wellbeing is paying off: 
•	82% believe their manager genuinely cares about their wellbeing 
•	83% have the flexibility needed to manage work and other commitments
Of course, there's areas we can continue to improve, and a few areas have slipped slightly. These include managing change, sharing information and performance management. There was also a clear message for our leaders to work on communicating their respective vision.

Each area had quite different results, so your leaders will take you through this in the coming weeks and work with you to create action plans for your area.

I want to thank everyone for their engagement with the survey again - as always, our Portfolio were the quickest to get involved and had one of the highest engagement scores. This coupled with our overall fantastic results really evidence our commitment to working together to create the best possible work environment.

I'm pleased to share that Weariby (the Education Portfolio Executive team) will be getting a new member - Mish Eastman will be joining us as Pro Vice-Chancellor of Vocational Education on 18 November 2019, and will also be part of the Vice-Chancellor's Executive.

Joining us from Swinburne, Mish worked as the Executive Director Pathways and Vocational Education. Mish has a strong background in creating new models of education and training in collaboration with industry, enhancing tertiary pathways, and in transforming vocational programs to create educational and employment success for learners. 

You can read more about Mish in Martin's announcement on WorkLife.

Thanks to those who joined our Education Portfolio Town Hall on Monday. We unfortunately had some sound issues on the live stream - we've provided feedback to our AV team and hope this will be smoother in future.

I was pleased to welcome the Global Experience Office (GEO) to the Portfolio, who now form part of Dene Cicci's team. The GEO team curate, cultivate and coordinate global experiences for our students, and with them having now joined RMIT Connect and Student Life, we will be able to organise our services around students better, further expand our global offerings and improve alignment and support of GEO’s learning design with RMIT Studios capabilities and support. The GEO team had 9,000 students participate in their programs in 2018, and hopefully through a coordinated effort, we can provide even more global experiences for students in future.

At the Town Hall, we viewed a short video produced by RMIT Studios which followed some of our teachers over a semester at Brunswick. This is an entertaining insight into what it's like in some of our classrooms, and the incredible experiences we provide our students. 

Finally, we had a teachers panel to explore the experiences of teaching at RMIT. Thank you to Dr Meg Elkins, Dr Ricarda Bigolin, Maurice Sheridan, Dr Sam Grover and Lam Hong Lan (who Skyped in from Vietnam!) for joining our discussion. We had so many questions, so I'll share these with the panelists and we will circulate some of their answers.

I'd also like to remind everyone that Movember is just around the corner. Sign up to support it, donate, and join the shave down event this Friday!
Given it’s a short week for many, we won’t have a DVCE Update next week. Enjoy cup weekend!

Last week our Vice-Chancellor Martin Bean made the exciting announcement that RMIT Council has endorsed a proposal to create a College of VE.

This is our biggest commitment to the longterm success and growth of Vocational Education at RMIT yet, and I'm thrilled to be involved in such a project. You can read more about the announcement on WorkLife.

This announcement is particularly special to us as a Portfolio, since the Office of Executive Director Vocational Education sits with us, and we've been leading a great deal of activity in the VE space since they joined us in March 2018.

Over the past year, we've supported delivery of a new Workplace Agreement for VE in collaboration with HR; led the University through five internal and external audits on VE; helped update the qualifications and competency records of all of our teaching staff; and now we're leading a monumental effort to update our assessments across our full VE offering. It's been enormous, and I have to thank our incredible VE community for their passion and dedication through what has been some very difficult moments.

But it's not just our VE Office supporting this community. Our Wellbeing and Inclusion group are running workshops to enhance VE student mental health literacy; RMIT Studios has launched a personalised and flexible leadership micro-credential program for staff in VE program design and assessment practice; ARG supports much of our VE compliance work; Connect and Student Life throw tailored events and activities for our VE cohorts; and our Carlton Library is getting extensive renovations to better support VE students. These kinds of cross-organisational efforts are our signatures as a Portfolio, and allow us to lean into creating transformative student experiences.

As I've been out in the VE community talking to people about this proposal, I've been heartened by so many positive reactions. Most simply say that "it makes sense", and that it feels like the right time.

We've created a feedback portal for staff to share their reactions, ideas and questions, and there will be many more opportunities for our people to be involved and have their say. For now, there are no changes for VE and it’s business as usual: delivering quality teaching and continuing our vital assessment work.

Have you ever had the experience of running into someone who you haven’t seen for a long time?
 
I recently bumped into someone who I used to perform with, back when I was following a career as a musician. We hadn’t seen each other in 34 years! It was quite an incredible blast from the past, and we had a wonderful catch up over lunch.
 
It was an interesting reminder of how much our lives can change – both of us have taken very different journeys, and I’ve had a number of career changes since then. I certainly wouldn’t have anticipated my current role back then. An important consideration as we prepare our students for what we know will be increasingly diverse and dynamic careers!

Last week, I had the pleasure of celebrating RMIT’s recent BHERT Awards with the Digital Credentials team who won the Outstanding Collaboration in Higher Education and Training category, and ABC Fact Check who won the Outstanding Collaboration in Higher Education and Training category. It was a privilege to be a part of the celebrations and honour the achievements of the teams.

  
 
As we are coming closer to the end of the year, now is a great time to have conversations about planning time off around public holidays and key business periods. Around Christmas and New Year can be really busy for some areas of the Portfolio as we prepare for our next intake of students, so it's important to plan ahead to ensure we have the required people on the ground, but also so that everyone gets a good break.

Melbourne Cup Day gives an opportunity of a four-day weekend with Monday 4 November taken as leave, and the Christmas closedown this year can become a 16-day streak for only 4 days leave: 23-24 December and 2-3 January. Please discuss with your manager to ensure business critical activity is covered and everyone in the team gets some time off.
 
If you haven’t yet, I encourage you to book in for the next Education Portfolio Town Hall on 28 October. To honour World Teacher’s Day on 5 October, we are putting our teachers front and centre with a Q & A panel dedicated to exploring the life of our teachers in RMIT, and how we as a Portfolio can support our teachers shape the lives of students.
 
As a quick reminder, with our clocks going forward by one hour for daylight savings, it’s important to keep this mind when booking meetings with our team in Vietnam. Please be inclusive and ensure the time works for them. This year, the Vietnam Campus will also enjoy a Christmas closure between 23-27 December. Please bear this in mind if you are working with the Vietnam team over the holiday season.

This weekend marks the beginning of Daylight Savings, and it's the perfect time to get out of the office and take a walk with your team. The recent Global Challenge baseline report showed that in general the people in our Portfolio are healthy and active, however, the two most reported issues are stress and sleep. I invite you all to take a look at the upcoming October wellbeing seminars at the City and Bundoora Campus as our own mental and physical health should always be a number 1 priority.

Planning for Graduation is underway, and I encourage you to get involved. Graduation is really a special time for both staff and students, and being involved in the Graduation Ceremony is a fantastic reminder of the impact we make on the lives of the students, who will walk out as the leaders of tomorrow. 

I had the pleasure of hosting the recent Media Collective launch, unveiling the industry-standard facilities for our three student-run organisations in the newly renovated Media Precinct: Syn Media, RMITV and Catalyst. It was amazing to see the passion and history behind the student-run production houses and meet the impressive alumni who started their careers here at RMIT.

As a final note, thank you to everyone who has completed the RMIT Staff Survey. The Staff Survey closed last week with an impressive 86% of Education Portfolio staff participation. It really shows how engaged and invested everyone is in the future of RMIT, and making our campus an even better place to work and learn. I look forward to working through the results and creating action plans to further improve the staff experience at RMIT.

The 2019 Staff Survey launched last week, and within 48 hours our Education Portfolio team came out in front with 50% participation rate! This was an incredible result, which really speaks to how engaged and passionate our people are about making RMIT the best possible place to work and learn. 

For those who haven't completed the 2019 Staff Survey, please take the time to submit your responses now. Remember, every voice counts, so don't miss out on your chance to have your say before it closes on 30 September. The email from Culture Amp containing your personal link should be in your inbox.

 

Last week, I had the pleasure to preside over two graduations in the Northern Territory with Chris Walters, Program Coordinator (School of VE - DSC), where 33 of our students graduated with the Diploma of Alcohol and Other Drugs in Tennant Creek and Alice Springs.

During my time in the Northern Territory, we met with various social services who support some of the most vulnerable in the community in Tennant Creek and Alice Springs. It was a really rewarding experience to accompany Chris, who travels to the Northern Territory to teach one week out of every four, and see how much of an impact we can make in one of Australia's most remote regions.

 

I'm also delighted to be facilitating the Keynote Panel discussing the role of Universities in preparing graduates for meaningful work and life at the upcoming Disrupted 2019: RMIT's Learning and Teaching Conference. This year we have an exciting lineup of industry speakers and experts, so make sure you take a look at the Disrupted Program and sign up to any sessions that interest you.

With the weather warming up and the days getting longer, it's the perfect time to get out of the office and increase your step count for the Virgin Pulse Global Challenge. We've launched a competition to help motivate you to make it a team effort, so don't forget to read our Weekly Wellbeing section to find out how you can go into the draw to win a night out at the movies for your entire team.

The RMIT Staff Engagement Survey opens tomorrow!

This survey goes out every year to help us gain insight into our progress and get a deeper understanding into what makes our people feel proud to work at RMIT. Staff feedback is a continuous process, and occurs all year round through our various operations and engagement networks, team conversations and Smart Stuff, but this survey is our biggest opportunity to hear from our people so that we can drive change that will help shape a positive staff experience.

This feedback plays a huge role in our decision-making at RMIT, and has led to many improvements for our community. In the past, staff have told us they want access to simpler systems, and Project Pi (while still a little while off completion!) is simplifying our HR, finance and procurement systems and processes. Staff want to be proud to work at RMIT, and in the past year we have been awarded LGBTI+ Employer of the Year and listed in Randstand's Top 10 Employers in Australia.

Staff have asked for easier systems to share knowledge, communicate and collaborate, and we've implemented Teams, Yammer (currently with over 2,300 active users!) and delivered the RMIT Staff Expo. A need for a focus on safety and wellbeing has been highlighted, and we now have the Medical Hub @RMIT, access to wellbeing initiatives such as free fitness classes on campus and weekly guided meditation, as well as RMIT communities of inclusion like Parenting and the DGSS Staff Network. 

More locally, we've created volunteering opportunities for our people, had a strong focus on cross-unit collaboration, and worked to ensure our people can get to know our leaders through DVCE Update guest editors and Dionne's visit to our most recent Town Hall. We've also been focusing on enhancing career opportunities, creating secondments and promotional opportunities in many pockets. Our recent Portfolio Leadership Awards were also in direct response to staff feedback, where our people said they wanted more recognition for those who go above and beyond.

These sorts of changes would not be possible without continual, open dialogue with our people, and it's important we hear from absolutely everyone. You will hopefully have received an invitation from your leader to complete the survey tomorrow. As we do each year, I hope we can all join each other in taking a moment to get it completed - there's cupcakes being delivered as a thank you for when you've finished it!

You'll receive an email with the link, and notice that we have a new survey platform this year, which will make it easier to complete. There's the option with each question to provide further commentary, and I hope you will consider giving as much feedback as possible to help us continue to shape staff experience at RMIT.

Your voice matters!
 
—
Womin Djeka
Thank you to everyone who was part of our Education Portfolio Town Hall last Thursday at The Capitol, and congratulations to our Portfolio Leadership Award nominees and recipients! We have published the award winners with some photos and category information online. 

While it's impossible to recognise everyone, I want all of us to feel incredible pride in what has been achieved so far this year. Looking at our mid-year infographic on the big screen made me feel honoured to lead such a passionate, inclusive and courageous Portfolio.

Whether you're in the City, Brunswick, Bundoora or Vietnam, every one of us delivers work which creates impact in transforming students' lives, and that's what truly unifies us. I hope you feel that connectedness in moments of reflection.

Click on the infographic below to see it expanded.

  
 

Thanks also to our Chief Operations Officer and Vice-President of Resources, Dionne Higgins, for joining the Town Hall for a Q&A. I thought it would be a great opportunity to explore a more personal side of one of our Senior Leaders. I hope you enjoyed the discussion! We will look at the questions submitted and share answers to them in upcoming DVCE Updates.

RMIT Vietnam plays an important part in the Education Portfolio, and it’s important to keep building on the amazing successes reflected in the infographic. Recently I visited Vietnam and spent time with the VALG, our Vietnam Academic Leaders Group. This new group of senior leaders was initiated earlier in the year and now meets regularly to discuss and promote academic issues relevant to our academic staff and students in Vietnam.  
 

If you're in Melbourne, you will have noticed a change in the weather. We have now entered what people of the Kulin nation call Poorneet Tadpole Season. You'll feel the temperatures rising, but the rain continues, and days and nights are of equal length. Flax-lilies and Myrnong (Yam Daisy) are flowering. Pied Currawongs call loudly and often, and Bulen-bulen (Superb Lyrebird) males have finished displaying.

It also means it's time for our annual Spring Social! This event is a chance for us to celebrate together the year so far as we get into the final quarter. Save the date for 2 pm Thursday 26 September for the city campus, and Wednesday 30 October for Bundoora!
 
 

—
Womin Djeka!
 
You know we're on the final run for the year when we start talking about graduations. Last week thousands of students in their final year were sent information on this year's ceremonies, including a link to apply to graduate. It's a daunting but exciting moment for our students, as they prepare to step out into the world with the skills and knowledge they have learned with us.

With thousands of graduates, there are thousands of experiences - if you know of any amazing students who are graduating this year and have a great story, please let our communications team know. They're always looking for stories to share across a range of channels. Read some of the VE, HE and alumni stories that were showcased last year.

This Friday is Wear It Purple day - a celebration of the contributions that young people of diverse genders, sexes and sexualities (DGSS) make to the community. Inclusion is one of RMIT's values, and I think one of the values that we hold most dear as a Portfolio. Much of our work involves building a sense of belonging across RMIT, and embracing differences.

No matter where you are, I encourage you to get into the purple theme, and make a donation to support safe, empowering and inclusive environments for rainbow young people. 

Next week we will be hosting the Education Portfolio Town Hall on Thursday 5 September at Capitol Theatre. We'll be presenting our Education Portfolio Leadership Award, so make sure you're there in case you've been nominated!

In the second part of our Town Hall, we'll be joined by Dionne Higgins, RMIT's Chief Operations Officer, to chat about some of the progress we've made this year, and what we're looking forward to for the rest of 2019.

Tea, coffee and some food will be available afterwards. To ensure you don't miss out, remember to RSVP via your calendar invite. I look forward to seeing you all there.
 
 



	Quick updates
•	Please RSVP via your calendar for the next Education Portfolio Town Hall: 1pm - 2:30pm, 5 September at the Capitol Theatre!
•	Find out how you can book into the brand new Medical Hub @ RMIT
•	What does Industry think of RMIT? Find out on WorkLife



	On Yammer

Check out the RMIT Ally Network, which trains and brings together staff who wish to act as visible, active advocates and supports for our staff and students who are members of the Diverse Genders, Sexes and Sexualities community.

Learn more about the Ally network at RMIT and how to join! 



—
Womin Djeka
There's something so energising about bringing our people together to share and celebrate what RMIT is all about – and we did a lot of that last week!

With Kick-Off Week, a workshop for our people leaders, and of course our first-ever RMIT Staff Expo, it was an amazing week for engaging with our purpose and our values. In these moments you really get a sense of the shifts we are making as an organisation to achieve our Ready For Life and Work strategy, and feel the momentum of the thousands of people who believe in working together to transform education.

There's so much to be excited about. Our values revitalisation project, Be the heart of RMIT, delivered with feedback from over 1,700 of our people, gives us the chance to create a common language that speaks to the heart of who we are. A top priority of our People Area of Focus team, it's about us defining who we are and who we want to be, and collectively working towards creating it. Check out the new RMIT Values video and find out more.

Alongside our revitalised values of Inclusion, Imagination, Agility, Courage, Passion and Impact, we also have a new platform for recognising and celebrating those within our community who bring them to life. Kudos is an online portal for recognising peers and comes with a range of perks, including retailer discounts and benefits. Find out more on WorkLife.

To me, our values come to life when we work together, and the RMIT Staff Expo was a spectacular example. Over a hundred staff from right across RMIT worked on creating the event, and over 600 attended on the day to learn about the exclusive services available to support their RMIT experience.

It was a proud moment for me to see so many from the Education Portfolio working with colleagues from Operations, Research & Innovation, Global Development, Engagement and more, connecting through our shared passion for RMIT and our people. That translated throughout the room as guests arrived, and people started putting the faces to the names and discovering things they didn't know before.

We've got some great staff feedback so far and many ideas to build on this idea for future, particularly for our other campuses. For now, you can learn more about all of the services represented on the RMIT Staff Expo page - keep an eye for the wrap up video there later this week!
 
 



	Quick updates
•	Please RSVP via your calendar for the next Education Portfolio Town Hall: 1pm - 2:30pm, 5 September at the Capitol Theatre!
•	Get active and join the Virgin Pulse Global Challenge



	On Yammer

Check out all of the staff posts from the #RMITStaffExpo! 



—
Womin Djeka

Yesterday was another huge RMIT Open Day at the city and Brunswick campuses! A big congratulations and thank you to everyone who was involved in making the event happen, and our teams who continue to provide students with information to help them choose their program. It's always such an exciting time to see so many prospective students exploring campus and discovering the magic of RMIT.

Last Tuesday 6 August I was delighted to host an event at Storey Hall with ADVCE Professor Sherman Young to acknowledge and thank all the teams involved in the Student Area of Focus. It was incredible to see so many people from across RMIT united in delivering our strategy.

RMIT has made tremendous progress in this focus area, which is all about enhancing our curriculum and the student experience. And our impressive results in the first half of the year are thanks to the collective efforts of teams and staff from across the university – College ADGs, Program Managers, Course Coordinators, RMIT Studios, Strategy and Operations, just to name a few.

One of RMIT’s students with the Studios Digital Media and University Communications team helped produce this special news bulletin that reports on the Student Area of Focus progress. Check it out!

 
 
Bethany Pridmore, Shona Leitch, Sherman Young, Tom Steiner and Belinda Tynan at the Student AoF Event. Belinda Tynan speaking at the Student AoF event. Source: David Heath

While there was some great things happening last week, we also experienced some sad news which many of us are still coming to terms with.

Please remember that wellbeing is always our number one priority. We are an organisation that supports our people, and that's something we all must be part of. Please check in with your colleagues and reach out if you need someone to talk to. The following lines are also available if you need to book a confidential appointment to speak to a counsellor:

• Students: 9925 5000
• Staff: 1300 786 860 and 0431 119 909 (after hours)
• Lifeline: 13 11 14

Take care - and I hope to see you at the RMIT Staff Expo this Friday.
 
 



	Quick updates
•	Save the date for our next Education Portfolio Town Hall: 1pm - 2:30pm, 5 September at the Capitol Theatre!
•	Get active and join the Virgin Pulse Global Challenge
•	Reminder to complete your compliance modules 
•	Find out more about the College of Business homelessness week event with Sally Capp, Lord Mayor, City of Melbourne and others



—
Womin Djeka

In last week's "Weekly wellbeing", I shared the VIA Character Strengths Survey, designed to help you discover your greatest strengths. Knowing our strengths helps us better understand how our brains work, and when we focus on our strengths rather than our weaknesses, we are happier, experience less stress, feel healthier, and can achieve more.

A few weeks ago, we did a session on strengths with the Portfolio's extended leadership team. Perhaps you have now had a discussion with your team to learn each others' strengths, and how you can work together to harness each others' skills. If not, I'd encourage teams to take the survey and discuss your results with each other - you may even like to try guessing each others' strengths. It can be a really affirming conversation to have as a team!

So once you know your strengths - how can you best make use of them?

Michelle McQuaid, who did some work with our leaders last year, has an eBook called Put Your Strengths To Work, which is a great place to start. It contains all the definitions of the strengths and ways they can be overplayed, underplayed and used well at work. There's some great information in there to help you learn more about yourself and how you can better succeed with what you're good at.

While we're working on our strengths - we can also be strengthening our bodies with the Virgin Pulse Global Challenge. It's a 100-day holistic health and wellbeing program designed to help you sleep, eat and feel better. I know many teams are starting to form - registrations are open, and I'd love to see as many people from the Portfolio as possible join (no matter which campus or country!) 
 
 



	Quick updates
•	Register to attend the RMIT Staff Expo
•	Get active and join the Virgin Pulse Global Challenge.




	Yammer chat

What are you proud of achieving so far this year? Or what has your team achieved? Shout it out in our Yammer chat!

Also happening on Yammer: free registrations available for the 2019 Melbourne Marathon, a buzzing community game space has opened, the Library welcomed students from Nanjing to Bundoora, and a great Portfolio-sourced fiction reading list. 








 

 
—
Are you up for the challenge? 
Want to sleep better? Exercise more? Decrease stress? Why not grab six of your colleagues and enter the Virgin Global Challenge. 
No matter what your current level of fitness or your goals, the challenge is a way to take part in some friendly competition and improve your wellbeing holistically.  
Sign up today.  




—
Womin Djeka
There is a lot of stuff for staff to know about at RMIT.

Two years ago, we hosted our first Education Portfolio Marketplace event, to help us get to know better the different services which exist in our Portfolio, and share them with others in the University. It was an exciting snapshot of some of the great things we're delivering across the Portfolio, and find out how we can work best together.

This year, I'm delighted to announce that we're taking this idea to the next level and making it even bigger by creating the RMIT Staff Expo on Friday 16 August.

Led by the University Communications team, we are collaborating with services across the entire organisation to showcase a wide range of booths covering staff and student services, and some of the projects helping us achieve our Areas of Focus and deliver our Annual Operating Plan.

Over light refreshments, you'll be able to meet and mingle with colleagues from across the University, and the people who deliver the services which are helping to make RMIT one of Australia’s leading employers.

It's your chance to discover all the exclusive services and benefits available to help you collaborate and succeed in your role at RMIT - find out more and register now!
 
 
 



	Quick updates
•	Academic Promotions applications due 29 July.
•	Higher Education Semester 2 commences today.
•	Get active and join the Virgin Pulse Global Challenge.









 

 
—
Take a trip around the world, on us! 
Lace-up your shoes, grab a colleague and get ready to feel better with the Virgin Pulse Global Challenge; a 100-day holistic health and wellbeing program designed to help you sleep, eat and feel better.  
 Open to all staff and all fitness levels, in teams of seven and armed with your new tracking device you will walk around the world in 100 days, have access to five modules that highlight key areas for a healthy lifestyle and take part in friendly competition within the Portfolio and against other Universities from across Australia. 

Register now. 

 
—
Supporting self-care
Exam time is a stressful period for students, so our Wellbeing and Inclusion team worked with University Communications to create a campaign to target exam stress:

"Don’t drop the healthy lifestyle when you ramp up the study. All the stuff you know you should be doing - eating well, getting sleep, exercising, taking rest breaks, not drinking too much alcohol - will help you stay focused and keep your energy levels up."

Find out more and download one of the free RMIT wallpapers for your phone!
