—
RMIT Studios win four LearnX Awards
Congratulations are in order for RMIT Studios who have won four LearnX Awards which recognise the exceptional impact of organisational learning, technology, and performance on workforce learning.

Two Education Portfolio teams within RMIT Studios – Vocational Education Design Team and RMIT Creds Production Team – were recognised in this year’s Awards, run by the LearnX Foundation; a not-for-profit organisation promoting innovative workforce learning and supporting technologies.  

Read more about this achievement. 
                                                                                               
 
—
Recognise Individuals or Teams in the Education Portfolio Leadership Awards
We have some incredible people and teams in the Education Portfolio, and this is about recognising those who lead with RMIT's values to help us achieve our goals. All staff in the Portfolio, whether in leadership positions or not, are eligible to be nominated.

 
—
Train the Trainer - Hackathon Edition
RMIT Activator is excited to announce on 24 July they are hosting a Train the Trainer (TTT) event.

Date: Wednesday 24 July
Time: 12:30pm-4:30pm
Venue: RMIT Activator HQ (91.02.102)

Specifically designed for RMIT Staff, this event is an experiential learning experience, providing participants with the chance to work in teams to design their own Hackathon as well as give and receive feedback from their peers. 
Find out more!
 

 
—
B Pulse
The Learning Analytics team and Belonging leads have partnered to deliver the B-Pulse pilot program, a collaborative research project aimed at improving student engagement and belonging.

This work builds on RMIT’s Belonging Strategy and the work undertaken by Dr Rachel Wilson and Bronwyn Clarke from the College of Design and Social Context.

Read more about it.


—
Build your confidence with the new Equitable Learning Course
A new 15-minute online course to build staff confidence in supporting students with disability, long-term illness and/or mental health conditions and/or primary carers of individuals with a disability.

This RMIT Equitable Learning module was developed by the Student Wellbeing and Equitable Learning Services teams to address some of the needs and concerns of VE staff in responding to the increasingly complex needs of our students but is of benefit to all staff, particularly those working with students who have ELP's. 
 
Access the course now.
 

 
—
DisruptED 2019 - Expression of Interest
RMIT’s Learning and Teaching Conference DisruptED 2019 is currently accepting Expression of Interest for sessions on this years theme 'Educating in a time of change and disruption'.

If you would like to present a session at the conference around this years theme, please visit the DisruptED 2019 event page and complete the Expression of Interest application form by 17 July.

—
Job Shop Winter Sessions
The Job Shop Winter Series has kicked off!  This is the perfect time to encourage your students too visit the Job Shop and get job ready during the Semester break. 
View the timetable now.
  


—
Weekly Wellbeing - On Campus Meditation
Looking for a moment of calm during your busy week?

Join the guided meditation with Chanh Nguyen every Tuesday at 10:30 a.m. The session and invites you to focus on your breath and your mental well-being, something that is so easily overlooked when life gets hectic.

This is hosted at the RMIT Chaplaincy, Building 46, 11 Lygon Street (opposite Trades Hall). All you need to bring is yourself.

For more information, contact chaplaincy@rmit.edu.au.
 


—
Womin Djeka

Welcome back everyone, I hope you all enjoyed your long weekend. As we welcome the change of seasons, we often find ourselves retreating indoors. Cleaning out that bottom drawer, a book on the couch, an evening in front to the TV shouting at the football or retrieving the crock pot from the back of the cupboard. Yes, soups are back! It is in its own way a form of hibernation and rejuvenation.

So, how does that play out at work? What does the change of season mean in our rhythms in the workplace? This time of year is a busy one for our academics and teachers as Semester winds down. Assignments and exams preoccupy our students. Our Wellbeing services get busy in this time period as students feel additional stress. Many of our professional staff are re-enrolling students and mid-year reviews and realignment of objectives meetings start to appear in our calendars. It is both a landing and take-off as we head towards Christmas (Yes, I am probably the first to say the ‘C’ word).

I have been taking stock myself recently. I was inspired by two Yammer conversations. One about what we all do to keep ourselves of healthy mind and the other about our favourite places. I compiled a checklist. Here is some of it…
•	How is my health? I need to stop ignoring my dentists annual text and book that appointment. Check! Re-affirmed my commitment to daily meditation and 5 acts of kindness. Check! I have started bringing my home-made soups for lunch. I love soup. Check! I am going to learn how to make Kombucha. Check!
•	What is going on with last year’s tax... Check- done!  
•	I took an afternoon, which was a complete luxury, to go through all the piles of papers that have accumulated on my desk. I tossed most of it out. Check! I refreshed my bookcase and took a bottle of spray and wipe to my desk and cupboards. My office feels refreshed. Check!
•	I reviewed my calendar for meetings with no agendas and wrote to people asking if I could cancel. Surprisingly that went really well. Check! I have set some boundaries around my availability and expectations and asked for some help to do so. Check!
•	I have reviewed the objectives for the next two quarters and with some difficulty have slowed some expectations in the AOP and FA. (Gosh it is hard to know what to stop or pause). Check!  
•	I have a paper I am writing and have committed to getting it done by August. Check!  
•	I really want to land my personal acknowledgement this half of the year and be serious about the Portfolio living RMITs values! Check!
•	I entered my photo in the office baby competition (oh dear) and am on a Trivia team (fun, fun) for the portfolio Check! Check!
It has felt a bit like cleaning out the bottom drawer, or a spring clean in winter- but at the same time it is setting me up for a great second half of the year. I am feeling energised. It has been a great way to remind myself what it feels like to be in ‘the zone’ (ok, so cleaning up my desk was perhaps not being in ‘the zone’) and to retain a healthy mindset at work.
 
These might all seem like simple things - looking after oneself, being prepared, being in the ‘zone’. Maybe it is simple and we just overthink things and complicate it. Keep sharing how you do this in our Yammar discussions; I learn so much from others about how they self-manage in our chaotic environments.
 
I will be starting my visits to your work areas over coming months and I hope to ask you how you maintain your ‘zone’. In the meantime I do get asked a lot about ‘What it is like to be the DVCE?’. I am really open to colleagues shadowing me for a half day or day. So, if that sounds like something you would like to do I can offer you a peek into my daily world. Send me an email and register your interest. Alternatively, Brown Bag lunches are back for the months of July and August. Book in to be one of five, bring your lunch and we can chat about what you want to talk about. Again, register your interest for a Brown Bag lunch via email.
 
There's much excitement for the annual Education Portfolio Trivia Night on Friday 28 June. This is another welcome opportunity to come together and bond as a community over food and drink while partaking in some friendly competition. Register as a group or an individual who will be placed in a team by Monday 17 June. There are heaps of prizes to be won, and I encourage all of you to participate in what is bound to be a fabulous evening.

You’ll notice below that we are starting to link to stories on Yammer, rather than post them in full in the DVCE Update. This will enable us to connect more with the people who submit these stories, as well as allow for more conversation with each other. And – shorter emails! Let us know what you think.
 
This week I decided to draw upon the tremendous posts that were had through Reconciliation week around ‘Our Favourite places and why’.

 



	Quick updates
•	Discover and bookmark HR Central; the new one-stop-shop for your everyday human resources needs
•	For the 2018-19 financial year, RMIT will be reporting through Single Touch Payroll. Find out more.
•	Watch Belinda’s video of the incredible Capitol Theatre opening ceiling lights show, and join the conversation about what's your first memory of the Capitol?
•	Find out who the winners are of of the 2019 Education Innovation Pitch Tank
•	Calling all Trivia Enthusiasts! Register yourself or a team for the annual Education Portfolio Trivia Night on Friday 28 June! 


