
My sister, who is a single mother of two young boys received a bill for $20,000 and another for $1,700.
These debts have arisen from 2011 until now. No mention of how the bill got so high.

She was informed one fine related to her youth allowance, and the bigger to her parenting payments.

Didn't even know until my tax return disappeared

I found out I had a debt when my tax return was garnished in 2018.
My partner and I had just had our first child, I also moved house (rent more expensive than my last), 
and I started a new job (paying less than my previous job), 
suffice to say, we were under a heck of a lot of pressure, both emotionally, physically and financially.



In October 2019 I opened my centrelink app to update my family income as we just finished our tax return, when I notice a letter on my inbox.
When I opened I went white as a ghost. The letter said I was overpaid by $6000 as I underestimated my income.

My husband and I were devastated as this never happened to us before.


I broke both my legs and was in a wheelchair for months and I work as a chef I had to prove I wasn't working, and told me that I declared that I made $0 that year which is a lie gave me $5500 debt I asked for evidence several time with no success.

$28k, this debt is SOUL CRUSHING!
I was hit with 3 debts.
Two from way back in 2011-2012, apparent over payment of newstart allowance due to my "incorrect reporting" & another debt from 2015 occuring due to me not declaring my partnership date correctly WHICH I ABSOLUTELY DID!!! Totaling $28,000!!!!

I lost my tax refund without due notice of the debt.
No one is giving me any reasonable response and when I have appealed under info given — so told info supplied was wrong.
Where is this ok? ARO supported decision but did not address my reasons — merely quoted Acts about overpayments.

I received a debt letter in 2016 and have been fighting it ever since.
When I submitted payslips in 2017 I heard nothing back until recently (2019) when I requested a review of the 9k I supposedly owed.

I lost the review and they increased the amount to 11k and took my tax return.

As a single parent, I have always been grateful for the assistance given me that was not forthcoming from my child's father.
I have always worked part time and diligently declared my earnings so such a scenario never arose!!

Going under, I have spent all of my saved retirement money

For most of my working life my wife was my daughters carer, in 2012 her health had deteriorated to the point that Centrelink wouldn't allow her to be carer anymore.

This is the second time I have been given a Robo Debt. The first time was for $12,000. I disputed it and have now received this.
I woke in the middle of the night to an email sent at 12:46am saying that I owe money as I was overpaid when I received Youth Allowance back in 2017.


Contacted business that is supposed to keep Pay slips 7 yrs. No, business sold.
ANZ bank account closed in 2016 and unable to get Bank statements.
Daughters health at all time low, struggling to make ends meet & Centrelink making her repay money she doesn't owe not have.


I got one debt & so far Centrelink has taken $8,257 in repayments towards the debt with an outstanding amount of $9,183 but then they hit me with another debt of $2,662.

They said both debts are because I didn’t declare my income correctly but I don’t know why this wasn’t picked up when I did my tax returns.


This debt has been extremely hard on me mentally.
I am so stressed out all the time about paying this off and raising three children on my own without a permanent job.


This has been an incredibly stressful event that I have no control over. 
It has left me shaken and in tears multiple times.

Fighting the Averaging Calculation

This is very stressful, and quite embarrassing to have to tell people, especially previous employers.
I am lucky in that my alleged debt amount is fairly low, and if Centrelink can prove that I do owe the money I can actually pay it. I just don't agree with the way the Department of Human Services is going about it.

What's the Point!

I was medically retired 2009. Aged 40. Decided to retrain - had been put on disability - drs approved & supported retraining.
Took me 7 yrs to become an Registered Nurse


I was getting family Tax for my 4 children. Centrelink / Child support decided that I did not care for my 4 children during the separation until divorce. 
I was never told how the decision came about because my ex-husband confirmed that I had care and did not claim any family tax.

I threw out the letter, it stressed me too much to look at it

I was told I could work upto 25hrs per week without it affecting my carers payment. 
And I did so for 3 yrs while my partner was fighting for his life with kidney cancer. 
I had an initial debt of approx 25,000 
(I threw out the letter, it stressed me too much to look at it) 
I've been paying $100 a month since Sept 2016.

Anxiety, cried after the phone call, not sure how to pay it

Called by a rude Centrelink employee who I could barely understand. 
Told I owe money and have a month to pay it back. 
Anxiety, cried after the phone call, not sure how to pay it.

Centrelink claims I owe them for money I didn't have at the time

I received my first pay check more than a week after my last centrelink payment. 
Now centrelink say I should have declared that but can't point to any legal reason why.

Insane amount of debt

In 2018 we received 4 letters asking us to repay debt. 
2 letters we received in July 2018 and anther 2 in November 2018. 
The amount of debt we had to repay was over $13,000.

I don't know how to appeal my debt

the lack of information provided , the verbal contradictions of staff, refusal to provide requested information about the debt. 
I feel under a conspired attack intentionally targeted as a vulnerable in a period of great distress around domestic violence, family court and grieving the loss of a parent.


I actually don't know how I got the debt or when I got the debt. 
I logged on to mygov.com.au to check my payments and requirements and there it was. I ran away with my 2 young daughters in 2012, from a monster of 23 years.


in many ways this has affected me.


Honestly, I am grateful that I have the opportunity to be able to appeal the amounts but I am so horribly stressed as to the outcome. 
I have two children under 5 to support. 
I hid the debt from my partner for such a long time because I was embarrassed that I had made so many mistakes that would cost us this amount of money.


Free leaving extremely abusive domestic violence this escalated my diagnosed issues of Generalised Anxiety Disorder, depressive disorder
and also CPTSD. I have been fighting this for the better part of a year now!!


I am confused as to how this has occurred and it is affecting my ability to get a loan. 
I cannot get on with my life while this is happening.


When I first had a review the debt was reduced from $5,000 to $2,500 but when I kept requesting an explaination of how they calculated that amount they increased it to $3500.

Jumping through hoops

I was working one day a week, meeting with a job agency one week and Centrelink the other week. I handed payslips in to the job agency, where they were scanned and added to my file. I applied for jobs, I trialed at a few, during which I did not get paid. Three years later, and three years off payments, I get the debt letter.

Defrauded by Centrelink

The brains trust down there a Centrewank decided that because my ex husbands tax was amended by the ATO by $700 that I incurred a $1011 debt. They said we weren’t separated. My income was $5k for that year. I have appealed it 4 times.

FTB, single, maintenance, working

Opted to be in NIL rate of FTB for whole financial year as was not sure what income was to be... did my tax return and centrelink reconciliated my payment and I got a top up.

Debt Appealed and found incorrect

Receiving the letter, I felt a sense of doom. 
Yes I am now working full time and my financial situation has improved, but not too the point where I had a spare $900 to give them on demand.

Why bother doing the right thing when they keep removing more limbs until I cannot even flail

I have always kept all my records, receipts, diaries etc all the way back to 2000. I always was honest with Colonel Clink but their computer said "no" They changed the calculations so that I had a debt. Last year I earned a total of $25k because I had some work but mostly Newstart.

Debacle of calculations and contacts

Firstly I had a series of 'silent number' calls with a fuzzy message but heard "human services" and to press 1, which then went dead. After two of these I called Centrelink who had no messages on my file and suggested they were hoax calls and to ignore them.


So I got this email saying I owed $22200+ , I'm only 23 . 
This has destroyed my life . 
I'll be paying this back forever .

In tears after the 8th phone call, 8 hours and getting different information each time

I've had to take a day off work just to get the on the phone to discuss it with me and ended up in tears after the 8th phone call, 8 hours and getting different information each time.
I just heard back from the first reassessment where they have added on another $200.


I was at Uni and receiving aus-study and working part time. 
I was making around $600ish a week when I was told by centrelink I would have to pay them back over $4,000.

Student Start Up Loan

Makes me anxious as i was full time at the time of the loan but i changed my study load later in the month following due to health reasons


Although my debt has been cleared, I wanted to share my experience in the hope that it will help reassure others that this is not only a horrific injustice but definitely a computer system failure that the government and all those involved need to be held accountable for.



Stress levels through the roof - about to undergo heart surgery, will likely lose my job and will now be unable to claim anything, can't do my tax return which I was counting on, hardly sleep at night anymore and will most likely get even more sick now as my heart condition is directly stress-related.

I’m in utter shock
How am I supposed to re pay this ? I’m not working
I am a single parent with two children one with special needs / autism which I receive carer payment from
I cannot work as I am his full time carer
Again I’m in shock
Feel numb
Anxiety levels are high
I feel like giving up


I received a letter from Centrelink in 2017 about an apparent discrepancy between my taxable income and reported income for the 14/15 financial year.
They asked me to enter my payslip amounts for the entire year for three jobs into their system. 
Luckily I was able to find a record of all of these.

I received $55,000 compensation for having to have revision surgery to replace a faulty hip implant.
I informed Centrelink when I received the compensation (12th. September 2017).
They now want to reduce our pensions and claim back a total of $1,950.



Years ago when my son was in primary school (~2008) I got my first $12000 debt that I've now repaid although I always reported my income and Centrelink said it was an overpayment.


I was recovering from a bout of clinical depression for which I was receiving treatment when I first received notification of the proposed debt. 
This was communicated to me over the phone during business hours when I was at work. 
I quickly became distressed and upset upon being told that I owed over $10,000 to the department of human services.



My anxiety levels due to this debt are crazy I am stressing about it all the time. I was waiting on my tax money so I could pay some bills and centrelink took my whole tax refund to pay off some of my debt!!!!!! They didn't even give me a chance to dispute it.


It frustrated me so bad that im scared to call them every time i call or get an email its another bill and no reason as to why they apporved me for the sickness allowance now i am paying it back also some family payments and partnered i have no letters as to why... i have been of centerlink since jan this year..


Financial stress,living costs,school fees,homelessness. 
How can we live on $4 a week? 
Waited 5mnths before i got a payment from centerlink,lie after lie from them stating all was fine,just to be advised that $3000+ was taken for a ftb/parenting payment debt from 2006 to 2007. 
Takes 2 mnths to even hear back about my appeal.


I felt severely depressed, pillaged and taken advantage of. I feel more sorry for the poor people who were hit with over 10k.


I am a mother of 2 single and had advised child support of my shared percentage of my children this was to download to centrelink automatically centrelink informed me child support records didn't download to them properly so they took there own information and made me repay $8000 back which left me broke unable to live and nearly home


I was diagnosed with severe depression and anxiety, Also I would be dead before I pay the dept


I had just moved my 3 kids from regional Queensland to Brisbane. Only working sparingly.
Im gutted, as i try to be as honest as i can when dealing with government. 
They have taken all my tax and FBT this year $3k that would really help. But instead they take it away from a mother of 3 kids.


I’m 26 years old and I got advised of my debt when I first started back working but I could not afford to make repayments as I was supporting my mum paying rent of over $500 per week plus we are behind.


i took my payslips in and they reduced the debt from $20000 to $16500 but i know i still dont owe that much money to them


Was issued a recovery notice in November 2017 for Austudy payments in 2011-2012.

After I lodge my tax for that year, I discarded documents older than 5 years (2011-2012). Issued recovery notice a few months later.

I have been dealing with this debt for years, I originally apparently owed over $4500 from Single Parenting Payment, which I tried to fight but with my anxiety and depression and what not, I gave up and agreed to pay a certain amount fortnightly. 
I finally paid ALL of this off, just before the final payment.


I received this debt out of the blue, 2 years after I am supposed to have incurred it. 
I am now no longer on a family tax benefit as my son has finished high school. I am actually now on a Neis payment while I try to start my own business.

They called me saying that there is income discrepancy from ATO and my centrelink, however I was 120% sure I've updated my income statement with centrelink, but when I check with them after receiving the letter they said the amount for $0.


Sent me letter without calling or pre letter to allow my evidence. Quit caring in 9/2018 but said i was not caring in period from 1/2018. Have all evidence friends, court, police, 000 call etc but not interested in my evidence that the person i was caring for was in fact living at my address.




Initially in June 2019 on my gov it showed I had an overpayment of $23000, which I rang centrelink about at which time I asked that they provide me with detailed and fortnightly information of how this debt was calculated. They did not provide this.

I initially got the debt at $9100 and when I called, admittedly a little hysterical, I was told that I lied to Centrelink about how much I earned in the 2016/17 financial year.
I remember clearly spending hours on the phone to Centrelink when my wage went up (I went up one day to working 4 days per week).

I called Centrelink to and got transferred 4 times with no assistance or compassion. Had to explain my story 4 times and by this point I was very distressed and angry.


So anxious because I have to pay rent!

I had no units to study from August 2018 to Nov 2019 but I had one to study in Jan 2019. Still had above 75% full time study load.
I called up Centrelink and asked if there was anything I could to to continue payments. They said yes and nothing happened for a year.