To assist in providing a greater understanding of the extent to which RMIT has consulted as part of this change proposal, 
we thought it would be useful to provide the below summary of the consultation process to date both prior to the change proposal and throughout this ongoing change process. 
 
Two separate reviews were undertaken in the first half of 2019 with staff in specific functions within OADVCE and RMIT Studios. 
This work identified a need to consider a holistic approach in revising the RMIT Studios operating model.
In July 2019, OADVCE and RMIT Studios team members were communicated to about the commencement of Project Sympatico which involved a 4 week co-creation process providing the opportunity for team members to be involved in developing recommendations for a revised operating model for OADVCE and RMIT Studios. 
The project working group consisted of a representative group of over 20 staff from across the portfolio. 
As part of this co-creation process, all staff were engaged and had the opportunity to provide input through regular updates, and via Slack, go Soap box and google doc channels. 
The NTEU was advised at this time that this process was underway.

In August 2019, following the 4 week co-creation process, the project team recommendations were considered by the OADVCE leadership team, who resolved them into the Project Sympatico change proposal.

Prior to the launch of the Project Sympatico change proposal on 20 November 2019, the OADVCE leadership team began socialising the proposed recommendations with staff members in small group and one on one meetings. 
This approach was aimed at supporting early engagement with staff on the proposed recommendations prior to the commencement of formal change consultation.

The Project Sympatico change proposal was launched to staff on 20 November 2019 with a town hall presentation and a briefing pack sent to all staff.  
The NTEU was briefed on 19 November 2019 ahead of this staff presentation and the briefing pack was sent to the NTEU on email.  

The consultation period in which staff could provide feedback on the change proposal was open for 2 weeks until Wednesday 4 December 2019. This period was then extended until 5pm, Friday 6 December 2019 to provide staff additional time to submit feedback for consideration. 

Professor Sherman Young communicated to staff on 11 December 2019 advising the timeline for the change proposal would be revised to January 2020 to ensure appropriate time to properly consider feedback from staff, consider any changes to the proposal and formally respond to staff accordingly. 
 
At this point in time RMIT is still considering the feedback received from staff and potential changes to the original proposal based on this feedback, and as such we believe we are still currently engaging appropriately as per our obligations under clause 28 in relation to major change consultation. 
 
We note the NTEU’s specific concerns in relation to the engagement of fixed term and casual staff members within OADVCE and RMIT Studios and we wish to highlight that as part of this change process during meetings and in correspondence with the NTEU, RMIT has provided additional information as requested to address the NTEU’s concerns. In addition, RMIT have also sought to rectify issues identified in conjunction with the NTEU. 
 
In response to the NTEU’s request for copies of all fixed term contracts for staff within OADVCE and RMIT Studios, RMIT believes the provision of individual contracts for all fixed term staff members without their express consent to do so, would constitute a disclosure of confidential information which is beyond our consultation obligations as per clause 28.7 which states ‘….provided that the University will not be required to disclose confidential information….’. We remind the NTEU that staff members will have access to their own individual contracts and may provide these directly to the NTEU if they wish to do so. Additionally, in the interests of supporting the NTEU and individual staff members who are concerned about their fixed term engagement, we would be agreeable to provide individual contracts to the NTEU for staff members who provide us their direct consent to do so. 
