Our Values are at heart of who we are as a University and a community
defining how we care for each other and the work we do
and what we stand for.
Values unite us with a shared understanding that shapes how we live and work together on a global scale 
They are grounded in a rich sense of place and connection with each other
During the year, the People Areas of Focus team has been working with our people to understand the essence of RMIT's Values.
This included a global staff vote, with more than 1,700 people from our global campuses having their say
Our six values
Inclusion, Imagination, Agility, Courage, Passion and Impact
Reimagined with a common language that speaks to the heart of RMIT. 

At RMIT, living and leading with our values is an integral part of who we are
Vice-Chancellor Martin Bean said our Values are front and centre of everything we do as a University.

They are the heart of RMIT and they inspire us, guide us and align our ways of working together
As a values-led University, we should be known for this first, and for our achievements second.
The RMIT Values were first introduced in as part of the Ready for Life and Work strategy in 2015.
While the words – Inclusion, Imagination, Agility, Courage, Passion and Impact – were universally well-liked
research found that while our people could list a few, they all resonated differently.

Revitalising RMIT's six Values has been a top priority for our People Area of Focus team.
Through conversations with our people
the team learned how our Values resonate at the individual level and how they make us proud to be a part of RMIT.

The collective responses uncovered during the Values discovery workshops have helped build a common language that connects us all.

Allison Shevlin, recently elevated to the Vice-Chancellor’s executive as Chief People Officer, explains.

Through focusing on our Values, we’ve developed a new language and active statements to describe the Values – shaped by our people for our people

It’s about creating a common understanding and more meaningful conversations 
about what the values look like and feel like when we’re living them and how they help us connect with each other every day

When we understand each other and care for those around us, we begin to connect better with each other.

For many, living our values is intrinsic to how they approach their work 
Creating a consistent approach to describing and recognising values-led actions, decisions and achievements strengthens the way we work together.  

Our continued success comes from highlighting and living our Values every day and giving our people the opportunity to define what each Value means to them.

That starts with naming and identifying what distinguishes us in them. 
You'll all get the chance to do this at a local level with your leaders and team.

Kudos, RMIT's new recognition and employee benefits platform has been introduced for staff to recognise their peers for demonstrating our Values.
Plus, it provides easy-to-access information about exclusive staff benefits and discounts.
Everyone plays a part in creating RMIT's culture and the kind of community that cares for one another. 
Be the heart of RMIT. 